Made some updates to the organization of Treatments section (#308)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/20.treatments.md

We differentiate between therapeutics --- which are meant to treat an already existing disease --- and prophylactics --- which are meant to prevent a disease from occurring.
For infectious diseases such as COVID-19, the main prophylactics are vaccines; several types of vaccines are currently under development, as detailed below.
While vaccines would be expected to save the largest number of lives by bolstering the immune response of the at-risk population broadly to the virus, resulting in a lower rate of infection, their development process is long and they fail to provide immediate prophylactic protection or treat ongoing infections [@doi:10.3390/v10120680].
This means that there is also an immediate need for treatments that palliate symptoms to avoid the most severe outcomes from infection.
Therapeutics can generally either be considered for the treatment and reduction of symptoms --- to reduce the severity and risks associated with an active infection --- or as a more direct way of targeting the virus ("antivirals") --- to inhibit the development of the virus once an individual is infected.

> In the context of COVID-19, there is uncertainty surrounding the exact mechanistic mode of action, as most therapies have secondary or off-target effects.

Author: I changed it to "mechanism of action," "mechanistic mode of action" was just needlessly complicated.

Thus, for this section, we will classify both therapeutics and prophylactics according to their biological properties --- whether they are biologics (produced from components of organisms) --- or small molecules.
Biologics include antibodies, interferons, and vaccines, while small molecules include drugs targeted at viral particles, drugs targeted at host proteins, and broad-based pharmaceuticals.
Broad-based pharmaceuticals include the much discussed drugs hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine, as well as nutraceuticals, namely dietary supplement interventions that may prime an individual’s immune system to prevent or lessen the impact of RNA virus infections [@doi:10.1016/j.pcad.2020.02.007; @doi:10/ggkd3b]; they have been considered for both treatment and prevention of COVID-19.
In the following sections, we critically appraise the literature surrounding the repurposing of existing treatments and development of novel approaches for the prevention, mitigation, and treatment of coronavirus infections.  

### Treatment of Symptoms

> I think it's OK to leave in a section like this to explain what this means. 

Author: Yes, should be a comment.

It's different from eg palliative care in cancer.
We can make sure it fits better into the rest of the section.

The clinical picture of SARS-CoV-2 infection differs dramatically between individuals.
Some are asymptomatic.
Others experience mild COVID-19 symptoms, such as cough, sore throat and fever, while the most severe cases of COVID-19 include severe complications including pneumonia and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), which can lead to respiratory failure and death [@url:https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/clinical-guidance-management-patients.html].
Thus, specific drugs may be considered to alleviate these severe symptoms and reduce the risk of death.

Should include other emerging symptoms like cardiac complications, blood clots, etc.

### Small Molecule Drugs

> #### Small Molecule Drugs for Targeting SARS-CoV-2

Author: The small molecule drugs targeting SARS-CoV-2 are a subset of all small molecule drugs being considered.

> The replication cycle of a virus within an epithelial host cell includes 6 basic steps which can be shortly summarised as follow: i) attachment of the virus to the host cell; ii) penetration by endocytosis; iii) uncoating, classically defined as the release of viral contents into the host cell; iv) biosynthesis, during which the viral genetic material enters the nucleus where it gets replicated; v) assembly, where viral proteins are translated and new viral particles are assembled; vi) release, when the new viruses are released into the extracellular environment [@isbn:978-1405136457].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The replication cycle of a virus within an epithelial host cell includes 6 basic steps that can be briefly summarized as follows: i) attachment of the virus to the host cell; ii) penetration by endocytosis; iii) uncoating, classically defined as the release of viral contents into the host cell; iv) biosynthesis, during which the viral genetic material enters the nucleus where it gets replicated; v) assembly, where viral proteins are translated and new viral particles are assembled; vi) release, when the new viruses are released into the extracellular environment [@isbn:978-1405136457].
```
Just a heads up, this will likely get moved to the intro within the next week or two, we are working on restructuring this type of content

Antiviral drugs do not kill the virus, rather they inhibit its amplification by impairing one of these steps.

> Nowadays, many of these drugs act during the biosynthesis step in order to inhibit the virus’ genetic material replication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nowadays, many of these drugs act during the biosynthesis step in order to inhibit the replication of viral genetic material.
```
I believe @yemarshall and I recently changed this as above, unless there is a specific objection, I think it flow better this way!

Importantly, SARS-CoV-2 is an RNA virus.

> Differently from a DNA virus, which can use the host enzymes to propagate itself, RNA viruses depends on their own polymerase, the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRP), in order to be replicated [@doi:10.1007/978-1-4939-2438-7; @doi:10.1002/jmv.25761].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike a DNA virus, which can use the host enzymes to propagate itself, RNA viruses depends on their own polymerase, the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRP), to replicate [@doi:10.1007/978-1-4939-2438-7; @doi:10.1002/jmv.25761].
```

> As noted above, even if a drug is meant to specifically target a virus, its impact on different processes in the host cannot be excluded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As noted above, even if a drug is meant to target the virus, it can also impact other processes in the host.
```

> ##### Nucleoside Analogs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Nucleoside and Nucleotide Analogs
```

###### Favipiravir

Favipiravir (T-705) was discovered by Toyama Chemical Co., Ltd. [@url:https://www.drugbank.ca/drugs/DB12466#reference-A191688].
The drug was found to effective at blocking viral amplification in several Influenza subtypes as well as other RNA viruses (Flaviviridae, Picornaviridae) based on reduction in plaque formations [@doi:10.1128/AAC.46.4.977-981.2002] and viral replication in MDCK cells [@doi:10.1128/AAC.01051-06].
Furthermore, inoculation of mice with Favipiravir was shown to increase survivability.
In 2014, the drug was approved in Japan for the treatment of patients infected with influenza that was resistant to conventional treatments, like neuraminidase inhibitors [@doi:10.2183/pjab.93.027].

**Anticipated Mechanism.**

> Favipiravir (6-fluoro-3-hydroxy-2-pyrazinecarboxamide) acts as a purine and purine nucleoside analogue that inhibits viral RNA polymerase in a dose dependent manner across a range of RNA viruses, including Influenza virus [@doi:10.1128/AAC.49.3.981-986.2005; @doi:10.1128/AAC.01074-08; @doi:10.1128/AAC.00356-07; @doi:10.1016/j.bbrc.2012.07.034; @doi:10.1128/AAC.01219-10].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Favipiravir (6-fluoro-3-hydroxy-2-pyrazinecarboxamide) acts as a purine and purine nucleoside analogue that inhibits viral RNA polymerase in a dose-dependent manner across a range of RNA viruses, including Influenza virus [@doi:10.1128/AAC.49.3.981-986.2005; @doi:10.1128/AAC.01074-08; @doi:10.1128/AAC.00356-07; @doi:10.1016/j.bbrc.2012.07.034; @doi:10.1128/AAC.01219-10].
```

The patients in the control group were treated with other anti-virals, such as Lopinavir and Ritonavir.
Treatment was applied on days 2-14; treatment stopped either when viral clearance was confirmed or at day 14.
The efficacy of the treatment was measured by 1) the time until viral clearance using Kaplan-Meier survival curves, and 2) the improvement rate of chest computed tomography (CT) scans on day 14 after treatment.
The study found that Favipiravir increased the speed of recovery (measured as viral clearance from the patient by RT-PCR) to 4 days compared to 11 days using other antivirals such as lopinavir and ritonavir.
Additionally, the lung CT scans of patients treated with Favipiravir showed significantly higher improvement rates (91%) on day 14 compared to control patients (62%).
However, there were adverse side effects in 4 (11%) Favipiravir-treated patients and 25 (56%) control patients.
The adverse side effects included: diarrhea, vomiting, nausea, rash, and liver and kidney injury.

> Overall, despite the study reporting clinical improvement in Favipiravir-treated patients, due to some issues with study design, it cannot be determined whether treatment with Favipiravir had an effect or whether these patients would have recovered regardless of any treatment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall, despite the study reporting clinical improvement in favipiravir-treated patients, due to some issues with study design, it cannot be determined whether treatment with favipiravir had an effect or whether these patients would have recovered regardless of any treatment.
```

For example, although there were significant differences between the two treatment groups, follow-up analysis is necessary due to the small sample size.
The selection of patients did not take into consideration important factors such as previous clinical conditions or sex, and there was no age categorization.
The study was not randomized or blinded, and the baseline control group was another antiviral instead of a placebo.
Therefore, randomized controlled trials are still required.

###### Remdesivir

Remdesivir (GS-5734) was developed by Gilead Sciences to treat Ebola Virus Disease.
It does not have any FDA-approved use.
Although a clinical trial in the Democratic Republic of Congo found some evidence of effectiveness against ebola, two antibody preparations were found to be more effective, and Remdesivir was not pursued [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1910993].

**Anticipated Mechanism.**

> Remdesivir is metabolized to GS-441524, an adenosine analog that inhibits a broad range of polymerases and then evades exonuclease repair causing chain termination [@doi:10.1074/jbc.AC120.013056; @doi:10.1128/mBio.00221-18; @doi:10.1038/s41422-020-0282-0].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remdesivir is metabolized to GS-441524, an adenosine analog that inhibits a broad range of polymerases and then evades exonuclease repair, causing chain termination [@doi:10.1074/jbc.AC120.013056; @doi:10.1128/mBio.00221-18; @doi:10.1038/s41422-020-0282-0].
```

> Although it was developed against Ebola, it also inhibits the MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV polymerase and inhibits coronavirus replication in cell culture assays with submicromolar IC50s [@doi:10.1126/scitranslmed.aal3653].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although it was developed against Ebola, it also inhibits polymerase and replication of the coronaviruses MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV in cell culture assays with submicromolar IC50s [@doi:10.1126/scitranslmed.aal3653].
```

It also inhibits SARS-CoV-2, showing synergy with chloroquine _in vitro_ [@doi:10.1038/s41422-020-0282-0].

**Current Evidence.**

> In addition to the previous work showing Remdesivir to be an effective treatment for viral pathogens such as SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV in cultured cells and animal models, a recent study found that administration of Remdesivir to non-human primate models resulted in 100% protection against infection by the Ebola virus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the previous work showing remdesivir to be an effective treatment for viral pathogens such as SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV in cultured cells and animal models, a recent study found that administration of Remdesivir to non-human primate models resulted in 100% protection against infection by the Ebola virus.
```

Remdesivir has also been reported to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 infection in a human cell line sensitive to the virus [@doi:10.1038/s41422-020-0282-0].

> The effectiveness of Remdesivir for treating patients with COVID-19 is currently under investigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The effectiveness of remdesivir for treating patients with COVID-19 is currently under investigation.
```
As far as I can tell, remdesivir is not a brand name so no caps needed

Although it was developed against Ebola, it also inhibits polymerase and replication of the coronaviruses MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV in cell culture assays with submicromolar IC50s [@doi:10.1126/scitranslmed.aal3653].
It also inhibits SARS-CoV-2, showing synergy with chloroquine _in vitro_ [@doi:10.1038/s41422-020-0282-0].

**Current Evidence.**
In addition to the previous work showing remdesivir to be an effective treatment for viral pathogens such as SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV in cultured cells and animal models, a recent study found that administration of Remdesivir to non-human primate models resulted in 100% protection against infection by the Ebola virus.
Remdesivir has also been reported to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 infection in a human cell line sensitive to the virus [@doi:10.1038/s41422-020-0282-0].

The effectiveness of remdesivir for treating patients with COVID-19 is currently under investigation.
Remdesivir has been used on some COVID-19 patients under compassionate use guidelines [@doi:10.1126/science.abb7243, @doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2001191; @doi:10.1101/2020.03.09.20032896].
All were in late stages of COVID-19 infection, and these reports are inconclusive about the drug's efficacy.

> Gilead Sciences, the maker of Remdesivir, led a recent publication that reported outcomes for compassionate use of the drug in 61 patients hospitalized with confirmed COVID-19.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gilead Sciences, the maker of remdesivir, led a recent publication that reported outcomes for compassionate use of the drug in 61 patients hospitalized with confirmed COVID-19.
```

Here, 200mg of Remdesivir was administered intravenously on day 1, followed by a further 100mg/day for 9 days [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2007016].
There were significant issues with the study design or lack thereof.
There was no randomized control group.
The inclusion criteria were variable: some patients only required low doses of oxygen, others required ventilation.
The study included many sites, potentially with variable inclusion criteria and treatment protocols.
Patients analyzed had mixed demographics.
There was a short follow-up period of investigation.
Some patients worsened, some patients died, and eight were excluded from the analysis mainly due to missing post-baseline information, thus their health is unaccounted for.

> Therefore, even though the study reported clinical improvement in 68% of the 53 patients ultimately evaluated, due to the significant issues with study design, it cannot be determined whether treatment with Remdesivir had an effect or whether these patients would have recovered regardless of treatment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, even though the study reported clinical improvement in 68% of the 53 patients ultimately evaluated, due to the significant issues with study design, it cannot be determined whether treatment with remdesivir had an effect or whether these patients would have recovered regardless of treatment.
```

This aspect is probably crucial to be investigated further in the trials that are about to start.

Perhaps, the TCZ treatment would best suit patients with severely compromised lungs due to the COVID-19 infection and are therefore at greater risk of death, in order to stop the uncontrolled immune response before it’s too late.
<!-##### Summary

Summarize the state of the symptom management approach.
-->

#### Neutralizing Antibodies

Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) have revolutionized the way we treat human diseases.
Monoclonal antibodies have revolutionized the way we treat human diseases.
As a result, they have become some of the best-selling drugs in the pharmaceutical market in recent years [@doi:10.1186/s12929-019-0592-z].
There are currently 79 FDA approved mAbs on the market including antibodies for viral infections (e.g. Ibalizumab for HIV and Palivizumab for RSV) [@doi:10.1186/s12929-019-0592-z; @doi:10.1146/annurev-immunol-032712-095916].

> Although vaccines remain the most important way to prevent viral infections, their development process is long and they fail to provide immediate prophylactic protection or treat ongoing infections [@doi:10.3390/v10120680].

Reviewer 2: Why do you suggest to delete that?

Author: I moved it to the first, more introductory part:

"While vaccines would be expected to save the largest number of lives by bolstering the immune response of the at-risk population broadly to the virus, resulting in a lower rate of infection, their development process is long and they fail to provide immediate prophylactic protection or treat ongoing infections [@doi:10.3390/v10120680]."

The pluses and minuses of vaccines were mentioned throughout the section, so I tried to consolidate things a bit more. To me at least it made sense to have that part when introducing the section and not repeat it in multiple places.
